- [Instructor] In this video, I will show you
how to install Docker Toolbox on a Windows machine.
Now, if you're using Windows, it could be on a laptop
or it could be on a virtual machine.
For virtual machines, two common options
are VirtualBox and VMware Fusion.
Well, VirtualBox will not work in our case,
because VirtualBox does not support nested virtualization.
This will be required when you're running Docker Toolbox,
and we'll talk about that in a second.
So, in our case, we're going to use a Windows 7
virtual machine running on VMware Fusion.
Let's take a look at that.
Here is my VMware Fusion player.
You can see the Windows 7 VM is configured over here.
Before we jump into the VM
and download Docker Toolbox and install it,
let's take a look at an important part of the Settings.
I'm going to click on Processors & Memory here.
Look at the Advanced options here.
Make sure to check this box which says,
"Enable hypervisor applications in this virtual machine."
This is required because, essentially,
when you're running Docker Toolbox,
it is going to provision a VirtualBox VM
to set up Docker Machine on your Windows machine.
So, essentially, that's what the
nested virtualization concept is.
So you're going to make sure this
checkbox is explicitly checked,
because, without that, the Docker Toolbox will not work.
Now this is how I have installed this virtual machine,
so we are good to go.
So let's switch to our virtual machine,
and install Docker Toolbox,
and see how we can get started with that.
Now, I'm in my Windows VM.
I can go to the link shown over here,
docker.com/products/docker-toolbox.
Now, the best way for you would be to search the link,
say "Docker Toolbox" on a search engine,
and it'll automatically bring you back to the right page.
The links may change in the future,
so make sure you search for the latest link.
You can download a Mac or a Windows version.
Well, we are on a Windows machine,
so we will download the Windows link.
So we click on this,
and it downloads the Docker Toolbox for us.
All right, once the Docker Toolbox is downloaded,
we click on the link over here,
and it's going to ask us to run the application.
It just makes sure that we do want to run the program.
And, now, it's going to guide us through the
installation wizard to install Docker Toolbox.
Take the defaults here.
It's giving you the directory in which
Docker Toolbox is going to install.
Let's take the default here, as well.
As you can see, Docker Client, Docker Machine,
Docker Compose, VirtualBox, Kitematic, and Git for Windows,
all these tools are installed all together.
Click on Next.
Take all the defaults over here.
These are just convenience defaults,
which will actually allow us to start
a Docker Quickstart Terminal very easily.
And it shows all the selected options.
You can look at them once again,
and then, finally, click on Install.
This is going to begin a rather simple install process.
During the installation,
it would like to install VirtualBox,
and it wants to make sure that you do want to install this.
So let's say we select the box here,
"Always trust software from 'Oracle Corporation'"
and click on Install.
And that completes our installation of Docker Toolbox.
We're going to see the shortcuts in File Explorer,
so we'll keep this box checked on,
click on Finish,
and it shows us links for running
our Docker Quickstart Terminal.
Let's click on that link here,
and start our Quickstart Terminal.
One of the first things it does is
it tries to download the latest boot2docker.iso from GitHub
to make sure it has the latest VM for you.
Then it tries to create a VirtualBox VM,
creates the SSH key,
which will allow you to SSH into the VM itself.
Certain times, you may get an error
as shown on the screen over here,
so the easiest way to go past this error is
click on any key to continue.
The command prompt disappears,
and now you click on the Docker Quickstart Terminal again.
And let me resize the window a little bit here.
So I can click on Properties,
Layout,
change the Width to 200,
and change the Height to little bit more as well,
and that gives us a better view.
Now, there is a window at the bottom
where is VirtualBox is looking for permission,
so accept that.
Once again, it prompts to seek a permission on your machine,
and it gives a prompt to show that.
So let's select the box here and agree to the permission.
Now it is waiting for an IP address to be assigned
to the Docker Machine.
The machine is provisioned,
it copies all the keys,
and now Docker is live for us.
And, just for convenience,
making sure everything does work for us,
I can say
docker image ls
and it'll rightly show that no images are available
because this is a fresh install of Docker.
Now, one of the things that you might see here
is an info message over here that
it's not able to use a system certificate pool,
which is okay, for now.
Now, another command that you may want to run here is
docker container ls
and that shows us a listing of containers.
So, as expected, our Docker Machine is up
and running in my Windows virtual machine now,
and our basic commands are working as well.
One of the key things to understand is,
when you're using Docker Toolbox,
when your containers are running,
they are not accessible on localhost,
as you will see throughout rest of the videos as well.
In our case, if you're using Docker Toolbox,
the IP address that is assigned to the machine
is the one that you'll be using for accessing the container.
So let's say we start (mumbles) container here,
the container will not be accessible to us on localhost.
Instead, wherever localhost is used in rest of the video,
if you're using Docker Machine,
then you will have to use this particular IP address.
In our case, it's 192.168.99.100.
If it differs in your case,
so make sure you use that IP address.
And sometimes you may wonder,
what is the IP address that is assigned to me?
So, in that case, you can look at
the Docker environment variables,
and, here, it gives you the Docker host,
and this is exact IP address
that is assigned to your machine.
So make sure, any time you see localhost,
if you're not using Docker for Mac or Docker for Windows,
and you're using Docker Machine, use this IP address.
In this video we saw how to install Docker Toolbox
on a Windows virtual machine.
Make sure to use VMware Fusion
instead of VirtualBox to have success.